Title: One (Thread) Can Keep a (PRNG) Secret, but not Two

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2606.00918v2

Published Time: Wed, 03 Jun 2026 00:46:55 GMT

Number of Pages: 43

Markdown Content:
# One (Thread) Can Keep a (PRNG) Secret, but not Two 

Ehood Porat Independent researcher Amit Klein The Hebrew University Benny Pinkas Bar Ilan University 

NOTE: This manuscript is based on Ehood Porat’s MSc Thesis from 2023. 

Abstract 

We present a novel, practical attack on the IPv6 Fragment ID genera-tion algorithm of XNU, which is the kernel used by Apple products such as macOS and iOS. This attack exploits a race-condition vulnerability in the algorithm’s pseudorandom number generator (PRNG) to cryptana-lytically break, learn the internal state of the generator, and consequently predict fragment IDs, which, in turn, facilitates an IPv6 fragment spoof-ing attack. As far as we know, this is the first cryptanalytic attack that is based on exploiting race-conditions. With fragment spoofing, it is possible to partially manipulate UDP datagrams and TCP segments. We showcase a new type of attack on NFS (UDP) where an off-path attacker modifies a file as it is written, and an attack on HTTP (TCP) where an off-path attacker modifies an HTTP request. Apple assigned this vulnerability the CVE identifier CVE-2024-27823 and patched all its XNU-based products against the attack. 

# 1 Introduction 

1.1 Motivation 

Pseudo-random number generators (PRNGs) are an essential part of network protocols. PRNGs are critical for generating unpredictable identifiers, such as session IDs, sequence numbers, and port numbers. These identifiers serve as unique tokens that enable network protocols to differentiate sessions, maintain the order of messages inside sessions, and protect against connection hijacking, traffic injection, and denial-of-service attacks. The security of network protocols often relies on the unpredictability of the PRNG output. 1

> arXiv:2606.00918v2 [cs.CR] 2 Jun 2026

Fragmentation is the process of splitting long packets into smaller units that do not exceed the network’s maximum transmission unit (MTU). In the context of fragmentation, the importance of unpredictable PRNGs cannot be overem-phasized. Predictable PRNGs can introduce significant security weaknesses, enabling attackers to exploit the fragmentation process to hijack traffic or spoof fragments, and potentially disrupt otherwise secure and safe systems. There-fore, ensuring the unpredictability of PRNGs is essential for maintaining the security and reliability of network protocols. 

1.2 Race-Condition Aided Cryptanalysis 

We introduce a new cryptanalysis method that enables an attacker to extract the internal state of a PRNG, which allows the attacker to predict the next PRNG outputs. The new method relies on a race-condition resulting in distinguishable patterns in the PRNG outputs, allowing the attacker to reconstruct the internal state of the PRNG. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first attack that triggers a race-condition in order to preform a cryptanalytic attack, thus opening a door to a new class of cryptanalysis methods. We target the network PRNG implementation in the XNU kernel, which is a part of Apple’s macOS and iOS operating systems. The PRNG algorithm uses a Linear Congruential Generator (LCG) with additional complication layers (in-cluding per-output “injection” of two random bits from a strong kernel PRNG) to generate a random fragment ID field (32 bits). The PRNG is reseeded ev-ery 180 seconds or 1,000,000,000 internal PRNG steps (whichever comes first). As part of the reseeding procedure, the parameters for generating the 31 least significant bits (LSB) are sampled from a strong kernel PRNG. XNU’s implementation of the algorithm ( ip6 randomid() ) in the kernel is susceptible to a race-condition that results in duplicate output values. The algorithm is invoked by the IP layer for every outgoing packet that requires fragmentation. Fragmentation can be easily triggered by a non-privileged user process or more importantly, remotely, simply by sending packets whose replies are longer than the MTU. This allows an attacker to trigger the race-condition (i.e. duplicate values) remotely. 

1.3 Overview of the Attack Components 

In general, the attack structure that we suggest includes the following compo-nents: (1) Triggering a race-condition in the usage of a cryptographic primitive. (2) Using the results of the race condition to break the cryptographic primitive and predict its future outputs. (3) Using these predicted outputs to attack a sys-tem. In the context of our attack against XNU-based devices, these components are as follows: 1. Triggering a race-condition in the invocation of the fragment ID generation algorithm which generates easily detectable output patterns. 22. A cryptanalytic attack based on the output (detected patterns) of the fragment ID generation algorithm in the previous primitive. The attack results in a full prediction 1 of future fragment IDs until the PRNG’s next reseeding. 3. Partial UDP datagram spoofing. Forging an IPv6 second fragment based on the predicted fragment ID, which, when combined with the genuine firstfragment leads to a reassembly of a partially spoofed IPv6 packet. 

1.4 Case Study 

Our case study revolves around the Network File System (NFS) protocol. In particular, we demonstrate that an attacker can inject malicious content into a file on an NFS server which requires Kerberos authentication (RPCSEC GSS in the RPC header) and a valid file handle (NFS header) without the attacker possessing valid credentials, by partially spoofing a UDP datagram carrying an NFS WRITE call sent by the NFS client. It is important to note that our attack cannot be mounted against DNS resolvers/forwarders, which is a typical target of UDP spoofing attacks. The reasons are discussed in detail in subsection 5.1. Additionally, we briefly (due to time and budget constraints) explored the topic of fragmentation in TCP as an additional case study, in which we successfully forced TCP segment fragmentation and esxploited it to modify an HTTP request to include attacker-crafted content. Enumeration/brute-force attacks on the authentication scheme of NFS (more accurately, on Kerberos) are impractical as explained in depth in section 3.5.1. In a nutshell, attacking NFS is equivalent to enumerating at the very least all possible values of a 96-bit cryptographic signature. 2 Those attacks are compu-tationally infeasible and thus do not represent a viable threat. In contrast to the above impractical attacks on NFS authentication, we describe a practical attack that we tested extensively. Instead of trying to brute-force the signature, we can exploit the fact that the signature only applies to the RPC header and not the payload of the WRITE call. Considering an NFS WRITE call for a file that is larger than the maximum transmission unit (MTU), which is, e.g., 1500 bytes for an Ethernet network, 3 and that the default chunk (basic NFS data I/O unit) size for NFS client over UDP in XNU is 8192 bytes [29], the IPv6 packet will be fragmented. The 1 st fragment will contain the UDP, NFS and RPC headers including the signature field in the RPC header, while subsequent fragments will contain only parts of the file content. Thus, an off-path attacker who can predict the fragment ID of the IPv6 packet, can spoof any non-1 st fragment, completely bypassing authentication (see the illustration in Fig. 1). This is where our primitives (race-condition, cryptanalysis) come 

> 1up to 4 values
> 2The signature algorithm is HMAC based on truncated SHA1 (aes256-cts-hmac-sha1-96), and it populates the ill-named field “checksum”.
> 3It is worth noting that while the attack is demonstrated on the WRITE call, it applies to all types of NFS calls/replies that can be fragmented (e.g. READ reply)

3into play – using them, we predict the IPv6 fragment ID value. 4 With this, we can spoof any non-1 st fragment, bypass Kerberos authentication and spoof the NFS WRITE call. Another subtle but important requirement is keeping the UDP checksum intact. This can be easily accomplished, assuming the attacker knows the data of the genuine 2 nd fragment, since UDP’s 16-bit checksum is additive. The attacker needs to simply craft the spoofed 2 nd fragment such that it has the same checksum as the genuine 2 nd fragment. 5

Figure 1: IPv6 Fragmentation of an NFS WRITE Call 

1.5 IPv6 Fragmentation Attacks at Large 

The NFS WRITE call spoofing attack we present is a specific example of a generic IPv6 fragment spoofing attack, the latter being so severe an issue that there is, in fact, an RFC called “Security Implications of Predictable Fragment Identification Values” [24] dedicated to discussing IPv6 fragmentation attacks. Hence, we consider predicting fragment IDs an important goal by itself.   

> 4Even when we have the current internal state of the PRNG, the output of the algorithm is not entirely deterministic; rather, at each invocation, the algorithm randomly chooses one next value out of four possible values. But this is a small enough space so the attacker can simply send spoofed fragments for all four values.
> 5The attacker can choose to target a known file such as a header file of a standard library, predict the genuine 2 nd fragment and calculate its checksum.

41.6 Our Contributions 

• The first race-condition-aided cryptanalysis of a real-world system. 

• A new cryptanalytic attack on the XNU IPv6 fragment ID generation algorithm. 

• Using the above, a new attack on NFS’s authentication using fragmenta-tion. 

• Applying the technique proposed in [18] to XNU and successfully spoofing TCP segments using our cryptanalytic attack. 

# 2 Related Work 

2.1 Partial and Complete UDP/TCP Spoofing Attacks 

2.1.1 UDP Spoofing 

Spoofing a complete UDP datagram amounts to predicting the 4-tuple connec-tion information: source/destination ports, and source/destination addresses. However, in a realistic attack scenario, spoofing a UDP datagram typically re-quires knowing only the client side port, as the other values (client and server addresses, server side “well known” port) are often trivially predictable. In practice, whether the payload is accepted by the application is a different ques-tion. For example, a DNS client requires a correct TXID field (16 bits) in DNS answers. Hence, spoofing a UDP datagram is often limited by a time window and some random or otherwise application identifiers which are not trivially predictable, such as the NFS file handle and the RPCSEC GSS signature in RPC. An early DNS cache poisoning attack from 2008 that used brute force to enumerate over UDP source ports is [39]. UDP port exhaustion attacks were used in [25, 3] though they required running code on the target device and more significantly foreknowledge of the UDP source port. In 2012, [26] showed that Android used weak randomness for both the source port and DNS’s TXID, but this issue was addressed since then. Another example is [32], which showed that Linux UDP source port could be predicted, but this issue was addressed since then as well. In contrast, our attack does not attempt to spoof an entire UDP datagram, with the additional merit that, e.g., in NFS, the authentication data is serialized into the 1 st fragment (which remains intact) while we spoof only the 2 nd fragment. In the literature, there are numerous attacks [28, 7, 46, 44, 31] that partially spoof UDP datagram by taking advantage of the predictability of the IPv4 IPID header field (or its IPv6 equivalent “fragment ID” optional header). The IPv4 ID attack presented in [28] is particularly notable and serves as the basis for many other attacks in this subsection. One of the main differences between our attack and [28] is that we can predict the fragment ID values in advance, whereas if we extend [28] which lacks such 5prediction capability to IPv6, it has to enumerate over the entire IPv6 fragment ID space (up to a factor of 64). This renders the attack impractical for 1Gbps bandwidth. In addition, the non-random algorithms that [28] attacked were fixed long ago by all major operating systems. In general, IPv4 techniques rely on demonstrating the predictability of frag-ment IDs and/or on the small ID space, none of which can be directly applied to XNU’s IPv6 fragment ID algorithm. The change in ID generation algorithms is also a consequence of multiple papers [32, 34, 16, 44, 31] that demonstrated predictable IPIDs in operating systems and how to abuse them for various at-tacks, prompting operating system vendors to revise and strengthen the IP ID generation algorithms. 

2.1.2 TCP Hijacking 

A partial TCP segment spoofing using IP fragmentation is described in [18] and is used to inject a malicious payload to HTTP/BGP. The paper targets fragmentation over IPv4 and assumes that the ID is not randomly generated. As depicted in [18, TABLE IV], the attack will not work against XNU 6 IPv4, because the generation algorithm is not predictable. 7 In contrast, we success-fully attack XNU’s IPv6 fragment ID generation algorithm (a pseudo-random number generator). A TCP hijacking attack [16] (extended in [17]) aims to terminate victim TCP connections or inject forged data into TCP connections by exploiting mixed IPID assignment that was possible in Linux at the time. To achieve this, the attacker “downgrades” the IPv4 ID generation algorithm for a TCP connection into a less secure algorithm. Both attacks rely on IPID (i.e. IPv4) hash collision on Linux. However, as mentioned earlier [33], Linux switched to a completely random ID in IPv6, making these attacks ineffective in IPv6. Moreover, in IPv6, a fragment ID extension header is only used when fragmentation is needed. This attack differs from our attack, which targets IPv6 and overcomes XNU’s completely random IPv6 fragment ID generation algorithm In the past some attacks [19, 22, 23] used a sequential IPv4 ID as a side channel in order to perform TCP hijacking, those are not relevant nowadays as IDs are generally not sequential. More examples of TCP hijacking via side channel are [21, 40, 41, 10]. Finally, the attack [8] (extended in [9]) exploited a side channel in the global rate limit in the challenge ACK mechanism. The attack didn’t require code execution on the target but did require binary-search to infer the source port. Mitigation for the attack has been added since then in the form of randomizing the rate-limit count. 

> 6and OpenBSD and FreeBSD
> 7In fact, the attack is also not relevant for IPv6 in Linux because [33] resulted in Linux revising the algorithm for generating fragment IDs to be completely random.

62.1.3 Information Leak Data Exfiltration An early example of a covert channel based on predictable IPID from 2008 is [11]. The attack assumed sequential IPID, which as previ-ously mentioned is not a valid assumption nowadays. In [33], the author exploits information learned from protocol states related to protocol fields e.g. IPID and TCP ISN to establish covert channels. The attack enables devices that are not connected directly to the Internet, to exfiltrate data out of the network. For exfiltrating data using IPID the author exploited the different generator algo-rithms’ usage of a ‘Hash-Based Fragment Identification Selection Algorithm” as recommended in [24, section 5.1]. This enabled the author to coerce a collision and hence learn about the protocol state. While this work is similar to our at-tack in terms of using protocol state information and performing cryptanalysis on a network protocol header field, it is substantially different in many other aspects. The attack of [33] did not predict specific IPID future values – it merely coerced the state to some distinguishable value. Their cryptanalytic attack was applicable to the IPv6 Flowlabel field and IPv6 fragment ID (of NetBSD) and is fundamentally different from our race-condition based novel approach, due to cryptanalytically crucial difference between the NetBSD and the XNU al-gorithms. Finally, at the time our research was conducted, the vulnerabilities described in [33] were already fixed: Linux switched to a bigger hash table for IP ID generation and a completely random IPv6 fragment ID generation, NetBSD also switched to a better random generation algorithm for Flowlabel and Frag-ment ID, and Apple released a fix for IPv4 ID, switching to a completely random generation algorithm. 

TCP scan The idle-scan technique [42] from 1998 exploited sequential IPIDs, which as pointed out earlier is no longer a valid assumption. 

Host alias detection and deNATting A technique for detecting NATs and counting the number of active hosts behind them was described in [5]. The tech-nique leveraged two key elements, namely the sequential IPID and the existence of an ID field without fragmentation for a packet. While the second element holds true for IPv4, it does not apply to IPv6 since fragmentation is added as an extension header only when a packet is fragmented. Subsequently, [6] proposed a similar attack for host alias detection in IPv6 that also required a sequential fragment ID. Lastly, the attack presented in [38] for client DeNATting neces-sitated an outgoing DNS over IPv4 query and relied on the same elements as the first attack. All of these are not relevant to XNU as the fragment ID (and IPID) is random and not sequential. 

Traffic interception A very early attack [20] showed that traffic can be in-tercepted by overflowing the fragmentation cache if the IDs are predictable. Nowadays such attack would be futile, since IDs are no longer predictable. 72.2 Cryptanalysis of Fragment-ID/IPID Generation Al-gorithms 

The work of [32, 34, 31, 33] exploited flaws in different PRNGs to predict IPID for different purposes (device tracking, DNS cache poisoning, breaking KASLR). The attacks in [34, 32] targeted Windows and Linux and were patched in 2019, while [31] targeted IPv4 ID in OpenBSD and was patched in 2007. Our attack targets the current XNU IPv6 fragment ID generation algorithm which has no known vulnerabilities at the time of writing, except the one we disclose. Another fundamental difference (as we already mentioned for [33] in section 2.1.3) is that previous attacks did not use race-condition to facilitate cryptanalysis. 

2.3 NFS Attacks 

Attacks on NFS generally fall into several categories. Downgrade attacks ,described in [14, 4, 27], coerce the NFS client to choose weak security. All such attacks require an attacker with Man-In-The-Middle (MITM) capabilities. 

Spoofing attacks , described in [14, 4, 27, 15] are attacks in which the attacker can modify requests/replies, requiring an attacker that has MITM/eavesdrop-ping capabilities, weak security deployment, or a combination of both. Denial of service (DoS) attacks [37, 15] require an attacker with eavesdropping ca-pabilities and/or lack of integrity/encryption/authentication. An impressive security audit of NFS [35] lists almost all of the above attacks and renews a theoretical reply attack based on weak NFS cryptography, such as DES and MD5 (that are not commonly used today), and lack of integrity/encryption. In contrast, our attack does not require MITM, eavesdropping, or weak cryptog-raphy. Furthermore, our case study is an organizational network that makes these assumptions highly improbable. It is important to note that [35, Fig-ure 5] shows that enabling integrity/encryption has a substantial impact on performance, whereas authentication has minimal impact. This reinforces our assumption that a significant part of the NFSv3 installations has no substantial security measures in place beyond authentication. 

# 3 The Attack 

3.1 Attack Overview and Attacker Model 

3.1.1 Attack Entities 

The entities involved in the attack are as follows (Figure 2): 

• Attacker device : The entity that carries out the attack. The attacker targets the IPv6 traffic between the macOS client and the server. 

• macOS host : The attack target (e.g. NFS client, HTTP client) that runs XNU. It should be noted that any XNU-based device may be affected. 8• Server : The server which receives a request from the client, whose non-first fragment is spoofed (e.g. NFS server, HTTP server). 

Figure 2: Attack Entities 

3.1.2 Attack Requirements Attacker device .

• The attacker device must be able to send/receive packets to/from the macOS host and the server. In addition, the attacker device must be able to send/receive packets to/from the macOS host at a rate of ≈ 1Gbps in order to trigger the race condition. This condition can be fulfilled by the target device residing on a corporate/ISP network that offers at least 1GBps (or higher) 2-way Internet connection, or having both the target macOS and attacker device reside on the same (modern) LAN. 

• There is no requirement for the attacker to be able to eavesdrop on the traffic between the macOS client, and the server. 

• The attacker device must be able to send packets to the server (e.g. NFS server, web server) with a spoofed source IPv6 address of the macOS host. 

• The attacker can predict both the payload and the send time of the frag-ment that he/she is attempting to spoof. 

• The attacker must be able to associate the responses from the macOS host to individual requests sent by the attacker. This is so that the attacker can process the responses by the sending order of their corresponding requests. This association can be achieved via a simple counter embedded into the requests and echoed back in the responses, any sort of ID embedded in the responses, unique content, or a temporarily unique UDP/TCP request source port. 

macOS host .9• The macOS client must run a “fragmentation service” (see below) or a “malicious app” (a low privileged attacker controlled process). Given the above requirements, the attacker is able to predict the next frag-ment ID, and hence spoof any non-1 st fragment of UDP (and TCP). The attack has two variants, in both the attacker leverages his/her ability to predict frag-ment IDs, to forge fragments originating from the client and intended for the server. The race condition is triggered by having the client send fragmented packets concurrently. The attacker can trigger the race condition via two meth-ods: by a “fragmentation service” running on the client, or by a local app running on the macOS client (or iPhone). These two variants are described below. Next, the attacker runs a real-time cryptanalysis process with the dupli-cated fragment IDs as input. The output of this process is the current internal state of the PRNG, which can be used to predict future fragment IDs. The two attack variants are as follows: 

The “fragmentation service” variant In this attack model, the macOS host runs a “fragmentation service” that listens and sends packets back con-currently. This can be any benign service that happens to exhibit the required behavior. The attacker device sends requests to the fragmentation service on the macOS host, and the macOS host responds with fragmented IPv6 packets. The attacker then observes the fragment IDs to detect the race-condition. In our experiments, due to time shortage, we used a simple echo server over UDP to model the fragmentation service. 

The “malicious app” variant . A malicious app is an attacker-controlled low-privilege process running on the macOS host (e.g. malware, or a malicious app if the device is an iPhone; for the ease of testing we used macOS as our showcase)), which sends packets using the standard socket API to the attacker device. The malicious app simply sends, as rapidly as it possibly can, packets (UDP datagrams or TCP segments) that get fragmented, to the attacker device. Here too, the attacker device is only required to observe the fragment IDs. Finally, while our main use case is NFS over UDP (subsubsection 3.1.3), we also managed to elicit fragmentation in TCP based on the work in [18] and successfully modified an HTTP POST request (over TCP/IPv6) sent from a macOS host to a web server. 

3.1.3 Use Case: NFS 

The use case we demonstrate targets a macOS host running an NFS client, that uses an NFS server for file backup, all within an organization network. The attack involves three entities, namely, the attacker device (a device on the organization network that is fully controlled by the attacker), the macOS host (NFS client), and the NFS server. The attacker device spoofs a fragment that is sent from the macOS host to the NFS server. The NFS server thus receives the spoofed information. The NFS server is configured with a security flavor that requires Kerberos au-thentication provided by RPCSEC GSS (described below). This configuration 10 was intentionally selected to demonstrate an attack scenario against a secured NFS setup. Kerberos is vastly common in organizations, hence the obvious choice of a security level for the NFS server. It is assumed that the organization uses NFSv3 over UDP as it is still widely used[45], and there is no clear perfor-mance advantage to moving to NFSv4[36, 1, 2]. Additionally, from a security perspective, the main advantage of NFSv4 is that Kerberos support is manda-tory [12], but since the corporate already employs Kerberos on the NFS server, there is no urge to upgrade from NFSv3 to NFSv4. In order to elicit fragmented traffic from the macOS host, we deploy a straightforward UDP echo server as a“fragmentation service” (described be-low) on the NFS client. In reality, any benign service that can be forced to send fragmented IPv6 datagrams can serve as a “fragmentation service”. Alter-natively, the attacker can run a local low-privileged malicious app on the NFS client to achieve the same goal. The attacker device must be able to spoof the source IPv6 address of the macOS host when communicating with the NFS server. The attacker device must also be able to capture the fragmented traffic sent to it from the NFS client. The attacker device must be able to send/receive at a rate of ≈ 970Mbps to the NFS client. See illustration in Figure 2. It is assumed that the macOS is about to write a file to the NFS server, by issuing an NFS WRITE call with the file contents. The attacker can target any file whose content is partially known (specifically the attacker must know the full content of a non-first fragment, an example is given in App. C), preferably one that would compromise privacy or integrity if tampered with. The aim of the attack is to maliciously modify the content of a file that is being written to the NFS server. The attack assumes that the NFS WRITE call is fragmented, which occurs for every file size that exceeds the MTU. The attacker has the freedom to modify the content within any non-first fragment. However, there are two restrictions: the size of the modified content cannot be changed, and two bytes must be reserved for correcting the checksum (more than two if there are constraints on the characters used). In the use case we describe, the attacker targets a header file named random.h , which belongs to an open-source library that is publicly available. We emphasize that this choice serves as an illustrative example and in practice it could be any file fully known to the attacker. For the sake of simplicity, we assume that this file is the sole item being copied and altered during the attack. 

“fragmentation service” In order to observe the desired special sequences that indicate a race-condition (subsubsection 3.3.1), the attacker first needs the target macOS host to emit fragmented traffic (since the IPv6 fragment ID is only present in fragmented packets). To this end, a simple C++ “echo server” is used, as described in this section. This server is run on the target macOS host, and models a UDP service that is accessible to other nodes (such as the attacker). Unfortunately, due to time constraints, we could not find a native service that operates in a similar manner. The echo server code consists of 11 one listener thread that en-queues each incoming request into a single shared, thread-safe input queue, and N worker threads, where N is the number of cores available on the macOS device. Each worker thread de-queues an available request and sends it back to the source address. All threads are bound to the same port but use different sockets. 

NFS configuration The NFS protocol supports multiple modes of security, namely “security flavors”. The “security flavors” are configured on the NFS server. While the default flavor is “sys”, it is not considered secure [14, section-2.2.1]. Since the most secure flavor is RPCSEC GSS section 3.5.1, we have deliberately chosen to demonstrate an attack scenario against NFS using the RPCSEC GSS flavor, and specifically when using Kerberos authentication. The NFS server in our case, is a macOS server (distinct from the macOS target) running the built-in macOS NFS server software as described in subsection 3.1, though any NFS server may be used. 

3.1.4 Attack Procedure (the NFS Use Case) 

The attack goal is to inject malicious content into the backup copy of the file 

random.h while en-route from the macOS target (NFS client) to the NFS server. This is achieved by partially spoofing a UDP datagram, the one used for the NFS WRITE call that transmits the file random.h from the NFS client to the NFS server. The attack is based on three main primitives as described in sub-section 1.3. The information leakage as will be described in subsection 3.3 exploits a race condition in the PRNG, detectable by duplicate fragment IDs, effectively allowing an attacker to gain insight into the PRNG’s internal state. By leverag-ing this leaked information, the attacker can preform cryptanalysis and predict subsequent fragment IDs, as will be detailed in subsection 3.4. This predic-tion enables the spoofing of non-first fragments with malicious content, thereby bypassing Kerberos authentication, as will be discussed in subsection 3.5. 

3.1.5 Use Case: HTTP 

The use case we demonstrate involves a macOS host operating an HTTP client. In this scenario, the attacker spoof a fragment to alter the HTTP request body. The simplicity of this use case is intentional, as it aims to showcase the attack over TCP. This differs from the NFS use case, where the focus is on circum-venting a security feature. The attack procedure is similar to the NFS use case, with the necessary alterations. 

3.2 XNU IPv6 ID Generation Algorithm 

XNU’s IPv6 fragment ID field (32 bits) is populated using the X2/32 PRNG (following the naming convention introduced in [31]). The ID field comprises 12 a most significant bit (MSB) part, and 31 least significant bits part. The field is computed using a PRNG that we describe herein. The PRNG is reseeded using the Reseed function of Alg. 1 every 180 seconds or 1,000,000,000 inter-nal PRNG steps (whichever comes first). As part of the reseeding procedure, the parameters for generating the least significant 31 bits are sampled from a strong kernel PRNG, and the MSB is flipped. Since the MSB is static between reseeding events, it can be ignored for the remainder of the discussion, and we will henceforth use the term “the PRNG” or “the algorithm” to denote the algorithm that generates the least significant 31 bits of the IPv6 fragment ID, defined by the Generate-ID function of Alg. 1. The algorithm is designed to produce unique outputs during two consecutive reseeding periods, which ful-fills the basic requirement for IPv6 IDs (uniqueness over short periods of time). However, as we note in App. B.2, this property does not strictly hold due to (very rare) possible collisions. Note that in a single PRNG invocation used to generate the IPv6 frag-ment ID, the PRNG draws a random number 1 ≤ n ≤ 4 (using a different, cryptographically-strong PRNG) and runs n internal steps. 

Algorithm 1 XNU IPv6 ID Algorithm (31 Least Significant Bits)  

> 1:

▷ M = 1836660096 = 2 7 · 315  

> 2:

▷ N = 2147483629 (prime), φ(N ) = N − 1 = 2 2 · 32 · 59652323  

> 3:

procedure Reseed  

> 4:

x ← random ({0, . . . , M − 1}) 

> 5:

s1 ← random ({0, . . . , 231 − 1}) 

> 6:

s2 ← random ({0, . . . , N − 2}) 

> 7:

a ← 49 random ({0,..., 231 −1}) mod M 

> 8:

b ← random ({x|0 < x < 232 ∧ gcd( x, M ) = 1 }) 

> 9:

g ← 2random ({x|0<x<N ∧gcd( x,N −1)=1 }) mod N 

> 10:

procedure Generate-ID  

> 11:

n ← random ({1, . . . , 4}) 

> 12:

for i = 1 to n do  

> 13:

x ← (ax + b) mod M 

> 14:

return s1 ⊕ (gx⊕s2 mod N )

3.3 Primitive 1 – Triggering a Duplication 

3.3.1 Triggering a Race Condition 

Reviewing the source code of XNU we found that no lock serializes the access to the IP layer, hence no thread-safety is guaranteed by the kernel for the PRNG. We used two alternative methods for triggering a duplication: 1. Remotely, by using a “fragmentation service” described in subsubsec-tion 3.1.2 (specifically the echo server described in section 3.1.3). 13 2. Locally, by running an un-privileged simple program written in C ( mali-cious app ) that launches c threads where c is the number of cores, with each thread sending out UDP datagrams rapidly. Note that the only re-quirement is the ability to send large UDP datagrams very fast. The traffic in both methods is captured on the attacker device (remotely). In our experiments, we use Tshark with a custom Lua tap for performance. 

3.3.2 Race Condition Analysis 

Over the next few paragraphs, we are going to describe the following: 

• An analysis of the race-condition. 

• The “special” sequence ( XYZY ) and its relation to the race-condition. 

• A hypothesis on the connection between the “special” sequence and the internal state of the PRNG, including an empirical measurement to assess our hypothesis. 

• The results of the empirical measurements. Throughout this subsection, step numbers refer to lines in Alg. 1. XNU has a single, global PRNG instance for generating fragment IDs used every time the kernel fragments IPv6 packets. The x64 and ARM64 implemen-tations of XNU have the CPU load the current state of the PRNG ( x) from memory just before the main PRNG loop (i.e., before step 12), and store the new state to memory at the end of the loop (after step 13). The loop itself is carried out purely in the CPU using registers. One can verify that in both architectures (x64 – Listing 3 lines 2-5, ARM64 – Listing 4 lines 2-9) the values (keys and state) from the global PRNG object randomtab32 are loaded into the registers at the start of the algorithm. Afterwards, no memory is accessed until line 51 (x64) and line 39 (ARM64) where the new state is written back from a register ( edx (x64), W9 (ARM64)) into ru x which is a part of randomtab32 .The XNU implementation of the PRNG is not thread-safe, i.e. there is no explicit locking mechanism that serializes the access to the PRNG internal state and ensures its integrity. It is possible to force two kernel threads to invoke the PRNG algorithm concurrently, and thus it is possible to end up in the following scenario where the current internal state x is right after the last output X:i Thread A enters Generate-ID , draws nA > 1 and reads the internal state x (before step 12) into its registers (part of its thread context) ii Thread B enters Generate-ID , draws nB < n A and reads the internal state x (before step 12) into its registers iii Thread A calculates the next internal state ( y) from its registers by run-ning the loop nA times, stores it in the PRNG global state (RAM) after step 13, and emits the PRNG output Y = s1 ⊕ (gy+s2 mod N ) (step 14). 14 iv Thread B calculates the next internal state ( z) from its registers by run-ning the loop nB times, stores it in the PRNG global state (RAM) after step 13, and emits the PRNG output Z = s1 ⊕ (gz+s2 mod N ) (step 14). v An arbitrary consumer (Thread A, Thread B or any other thread) con-sumes an additional PRNG value, by reading the internal state z, drawing 

n = nA − nB and calculating the next state which is exactly y (because 

nA = nB + n) and outputting Y = s1 ⊕ (gy+s2 mod N ). The net result is the following PRNG output sequence (we extend the se-quence to include the previous output X of the PRNG, which corresponds to 

x): 

X , Y , Z , Y

This sequence can be easily identified by an observer – it contains two identical (i.e. duplicate ) values ( Y ), separated by a different value ( Z), with yet another different value ( X) preceding them. First, for clarity of discussion, let us define, for an internal state x, its offset from the seed (i.e. the number of PRNG inner loop steps) as sx. The cryptanalysis requires (a lot of) pairs of outputs ( X, X ′) whose respective pairs of internal states ( x, x ′) satisfy ( sx mod 4) ̸ = ( sx′ mod 4). The cryptanalysis can withstand a certain amount of error, i.e. we do not need 100% of the pairs to be correct. Therefore, when the above described race-condition occurs it results in: 1. A stream of outputs XYZY where X, Y, Z correspond to the internal states 

x, y, z 

2. Since the internal state x is followed by z and also by y (where sy > s z )and in this case sx < s z < s y ≤ sx + 4, we obtain the two inequalities sy

mod 4 ̸ = sz mod 4, and sx mod 4 ̸ = sz mod 4. We denote p(sx,s z ) as Prob (sx̸ = sz mod 4 |XYZY ), p(sz ,s y ) as Prob (sz̸ = sy

mod 4 |XYZY ). Per our hypothesis, had it only been possible to get XY ZY 

through the particular race condition event sx < s z < s y ≤ sx + 4, then we would have had p(sx,s z ) = p(sz ,s y ) = 1. However in reality, there are multiple fundamentally different race condition events that lead to XY ZY and therefore 

p(sx,s z ) and p(sz ,s y ) are slightly lower than 1 (but still considerably higher than 0.75). Since empirically p(sz ,s y ) is slightly larger than p(sx,s z ) we denote by p the average of p(sz ,s y ), p (sx,s z ). We hypothesize that p would be significantly higher than 0.75 (whereas when observing an arbitrary sequence XY Z , P rob (sx̸ =

sz mod 4 |XYZ ) ≈ 0.75 since it is the same as Prob (random two bits ̸ =random two bits)) and likewise P rob (sz̸ = sy mod 4 |XYZ ) ≈ 0.75). In order to prove this hypothesis, one would have to instrument the kernel. Aside from the practical difficulties of instrumenting XNU, the instrumentation would damage the natural course of the race-condition, defeating the original purpose of the instrumentation. Therefore, we empirically prove this intuition (this proof is not part of the attack, it is merely a set of lab experiments). 15 We look at cases of XYZY , and calculate the portion of “good” pairs (for the cryptanalysis). Formally, for a sequence XYZY and internal states x , y, z

corresponding to X , Y , Z , the experiment that is described below calculates p

(the average of Prob (sx mod 4 ̸ = sz mod 4 |XYZY ) and Prob (sz mod 4 ̸ = sy

mod 4 |XYZY )). We then show that p is significantly higher than 0.75 which justifies the use of this approach for our cryptanalysis. In order to compute sx for each fragment ID, we first dump the kernel mem-ory before each experiment to get the initial PRNG state. Then, independently from the kernel, we advance the PRNG algorithm from its initial in single steps (by setting n = 1 in step 11), and for each fragment ID X, we search for the matching algorithm output X (whose internal state is x) and record the number of PRNG steps from the initial state (as sx). We conducted multiple experiments, in each we counted the number of oc-currences of the sequence XYZY – denote this by P , and using the sx values, we counted the number of inequalities among the two pairs in each occurrence of the sequence XYZY – denote this by I. Each instance of the sequence can contribute up to two inequalities as described earlier, so we have E(I) = p · 2P .Hence we estimate p = I 

> 2P

.Results on x64 architecture from a 2012 MacBook device, yielded p values ranging at 0 .9024 < p < 0.9261. Results from ARM64 architecture from a 2021 MacBook device, yielded p values ranging at 0 .8138 < p < 0.8388. The experiment proves our hypothesis that p is significantly higher than 0.75, which is an enabler for the attack. 

3.4 Primitive 2 – Cryptanalysis 

Before diving into our cryptanalysis primitive, it should be noted while there are other attacks against this PRNG, as described in Appendix B. However, those attacks are impractical, either due to their excessive run time and/or due to their negligible coverage of the key space. 

3.4.1 Overview 

We extract the static key of the PRNG ( s1, g, s 2, a, b mod M ) in four phases. In the first phase, we extract s1 using our fundamental insight regarding the higher-than-average probabilities of some inequalities on internal state bits when the special fragment ID sequence XY ZY is observed. In the second phase, we use s1 from the first phase to extract g. This time we use pairs of consecutive fragment IDs, exploiting the dependencies in their internal state bits. In the third phase we use the extracted s1, g to extract s2 by extending the technique of the second phase. With s1, g, s 2 we can calculate the internal state x of the PRNG corresponding to every fragment ID we observe. Finally in the fourth phase, given the states of consecutive fragment IDs we extract a, b mod M by solving two linear equations (mod M ) over two unknowns a, b .16 3.4.2 Notations and Partial Internal States 

The PRNG defined in Alg. 1 has a static key a, b, g, s 1, s 2 and a secret dynamic internal state x that is modified with each PRNG invocation, and is initialized with another part of the key x0. We remind that Alg. 1 also defines M and N

to be specific constants. We write x(m) as a shorthand for x mod m. Particularly, for a full internal state x, we define a partial internal state (modulo m) x(m) ≡ x mod m. It is then easy to see the following: 

• If m|M , and y = ax + b mod M then y(m) = a(m)x(m) + b(m) mod m.

• If m|48 then a(m) = 1 (this is by construction). Therefore, applying the linear transformation ( x(m) 7 → a(m) · x(m) + b(m)) n times would result in 

x(m) 7 → x(m) + n · b(m) mod m for any m|48. 

• If m = 2 i3j then b(m) is invertible modulo m (since by construction b

mod 2 ̸ = 0 , b mod 3 ̸ = 0). We also define a map log 2 : {1, . . . , N − 1} 7 → { 0, . . . , N − 2} as follows: log 2(2 n

mod N ) 7 → (n mod ( N − 1)). This map is well defined because 2 is a generator of Z/N Z.

3.4.3 The Basic Insight 

We now look at the partial internal states of the special sequences ( XYZY )we considered in subsubsection 3.3.2 with m = 4, i.e., the two least significant bits of the internal state. Recall that sz − sx denotes the number of times the PRNG applies the transformation from the partial internal state x to z, i.e. 

z(4) = x(4) + ( sz − sx) · b(4) mod 4. Since P rob (sz − sx̸ = 0 mod 4 |XYZY ) = p

and b is invertible mod 4 we have P rob (( sz −sx)·b(4) mod 4 ̸ = 0 |XYZY ) = p,i.e. P rob (x(4) ̸ = z(4) |XYZY ) = p. Therefore (henceforth, all inequalities hold with probability p given XYZY ): (x ⊕ s2) mod 4 ̸ = ( z ⊕ s2) mod 4 We can multiply each side by log 2 g (which is invertible modulo N − 1 by g’s construction, and since 4 |N − 1, it is also invertible modulo 4), 8 so the following holds: (log 2 g) · (x ⊕ s2) mod 4 ̸ = (log 2 g) · (z ⊕ s2) mod 4 We can rewrite the above into: (log 2(gx⊕s2 mod N )) mod 4 ̸

=(log 2(gz⊕s2 mod N )) mod 4     

> 8Note that 8 ∤N−1, which is why we cannot extend this approach beyond the two least significant bits.

17 And finally, since X = s1 ⊕ (gx⊕s2 mod N ) and Z = s1 ⊕ (gz⊕s2 mod N ) we get: (log 2(X ⊕ s1)) mod 4 ̸ = (log 2(Z ⊕ s1)) mod 4 And likewise with Y and Z since P rob (sy̸ = sz mod 4 |XYZY ) = p.In other words, if we observe a PRNG sequence XYZY then we have a probability p, significantly higher than 0.75, for each of the following equations to hold, for the correct s1:(log 2(X ⊕ s1)) mod 4 ̸ = (log 2(Z ⊕ s1)) mod 4 (log 2(Y ⊕ s1)) mod 4 ̸ = (log 2(Z ⊕ s1)) mod 4 (1) Whereas for a random s1, the probability is ≈ 0.75. This is the basic insight that lets us conduct an efficient cryptanalysis of the XNU algorithm. The cryptanalysis is composed of four phases. The first phase is detailed here, while the remaining phases are described in App. A for the interested reader. 

3.4.4 Cryptanalytic Attack Phase 1 – Extracting s1

Offline, the attacker prepares a log 2(·) mod 4 table for {1, . . . , N − 1}, i.e., a table where (2 n mod N ) 7 → (n mod 4). In the online phase, the attacker collects XY ZY sequences (denote their number by P ). Then the attacker goes over all 2 31 possible values for s1. For each value, the attacker counts how many Equation 1 inequalities hold among the XYZY sequences – designate this by Q. The attacker picks the s1 value that maximizes Q as the presumably correct s1.For the correct s1, E(Q) = p · 2P (as we explain in subsubsection 3.3.2). For a random s1, Q ∼ N ( 34 · 2P, 316 · 2P ). To reliably eliminate 2 31 − 1 false positive s1 values, k = 7 standard devia-tions suffice, thus we require Q ≥ 32 P + k

q 38 P .This yields a lower bound on P , since we want (say) at least half of the phase 1 attempts to succeed: 

E(Q) = p · 2P ≥ 32 P + k

r 38 P

Therefore, even for the ideal case p = 1, P ≥ 937. This phase takes 2 31 · 2P calculations and ends up with the correct s1. With this s1, the attack proceeds to the next cryptanalytic phases (as described in App. A). 

3.4.5 PRNG Synchronization Step 

In order to be predict the next fragment IDs, the attacker has to be synchronized with the macOS host (i.e. the internal state must be advanced the same number of times). De-synchronization can happen due to packet loss, e.g. the attack experienced packet loss and did not receive the last fragment sent by the macOS 18 host. In order to synchronize to the PRNG current state, the attacker device sends one more request to the “framgnetation service” on the macOS host. The attacker extracts the fragment ID from the reply, and computes its internal state f using s1, g, s 2 obtained via the cryptanalysis. Finally the attacker copies the internal state f into his/her PRNG simulator which can produce the next fragment IDs. 

3.5 Primitive 3 – Partial UDP Datagram Spoofing 

3.5.1 NFS protocol 

In order to understand our attack, a short explanation about the NFS WRITE call is required. NFS is built on top of ONC-RPC ( [43]). NFS calls cannot be serialized directly to a UDP datagram, and instead are serialized as ONC-RPC calls. 

RPC call The NFS protocol supports multiple modes of security. The most secure is RPCSEC GSS. Underlying RPCSEC GSS is the Generic Security Stan-dard API (GSS-API) for authentication, integrity, and privacy typically imple-mented via Kerberos. The RPCSEC GSS is provided as fields inside the RPC call header, therefore its fields precede the NFS WRITE call fields. 1. Xid: A 32-bit unique transaction ID for the RPC call, used to match the response to the corresponding request. 2. Credentials: Authentication information for the RPC call. In the context of RPCSEC GSS the relevant fields are: (a) A 4-byte handle received from the RPC server. (b) A 4-byte sequence number that must be within a specified sequence window exchanged during context creation. 3. Verifier: This field is used for data consistency checking. In our case, the verifier contains an a cryptographic keyed-hash digest (12 bytes) of the call header from the xid up to and including the credentials. 9

An attacker who wants to spoof a WRITE call to an NFS server operating in 

sec=krb5 mode, as in our case, has two options. The first is to attempt to falsify a Kerberos ticket 10 . This approach is not feasible as Kerberos’s underlying cryptography is generally considered secure. The second option is to attempt to enumerate the 4-byte handle that iden-tifies the Kerberos ticket. However, this approach is not practical either, as the attacker would need to ensure that the sequence number falls within the allowed window. In XNU, the allowed window is hard-coded to 256 ([30] 

GSS SVC SEQWINDOW ), which means that the search space is effectively 2 32 ×( 232  

> 256

). 

> 9The signature algorithm in our case is HMAC-SHA1-96
> 10 which, in our case, uses the AES256-CTS encryption algorithm

19 Additionally, the attacker would need to compute the correct HMAC over the RPC header up to and including the credentials field (2 96 possible values), mak-ing this method completely unfeasible. 

Crafting the NFS WRITE call. In order to successfully execute the spoof-ing attack as outlined in the introduction, the attacker needs to know, in advance (1) the genuine file’s content that is being written to the target server; and (2) the size of the (genuine) 2 nd fragment. The attacker can target any file that is fully known in advance. Consider the following example: a developer wants to backup the code he works on, so he sets up a periodic task to copy it to a remote server. The code contains some publicly available header files (.h), e.g. header files for public 3 rd -party libraries. Once the backup task runs, the attacker injects malicious code to one of the header files. Eventually the project will be compiled with the embedded malicious code, and subsequently the code could be run locally or deployed to numerous other devices. To demonstrate the attack, consider the header file located at 

${SDK HOME }/usr/include/sys/random.h which is provided by Apple’s “Com-mandLineTools”. This file is public, and as such, it fulfills the 1 st requirement. The 2 nd requirement can be fulfilled by taking into account the file size and the total size of the headers.We demonstrated the attack with a realistic payload as described in App. C. 

UDP checksum. To successfully spoof the 2 nd fragment of the NFS WRITE call, it is imperative to ensure that the UDP checksum is correct. Since the algorithm for computing the checksum in UDP is additive, the correction process is relatively straightforward. All that is required is to append a spare word (two bytes) at the end of the spoofed 2 nd fragment and utilize it to adjust the checksum to that of the genuine 2 nd fragment, before sending the spoofed fragment. 

# 4 Experiments and Results 

4.1 Experiment 

Cryptanalytic backend. The attacker’s “cryptanalytic backend” is an ab-straction for a powerful compute device controlled by the attacker, which is used for the cryptanalysis work load. Conceptually the cryptanalytic backend can be thought of as part of the attacker entity. It has no limitation on the physical location, i.e. if the attacker device is powerful enough (e.g. a device with many cores or perhaps multiple GPUs), it can serve as the cryptanalytic backend. Al-ternatively, if the attacker controls multiple devices on the local network, then they can collectively serve as the cryptanalytic backend, and the attacker can distribute the work load among the individual devices. Finally, the cryptana-lytic backend can be completely remote – on or off a public cloud. It should thus be stressed that the physical separation we describe in the proceeding is 20 merely due to a weak device on our setup, and that in other circumstances, the cryptanalytic backend can be completely local. In order to conduct the crypt-analysis, we utilized a virtual machine on Azure (Standard D96as v4) with 48 cores and 384GiB RAM as our cryptanalytic backend. Using this backend ma-chine, our cryptanalytic attack takes 4-15 minutes. This does not suffice to mount a real-time attack, because the PRNG is reseeded every three minutes. As described in the subsection 3.1, the attack has two variants, using local app running on the macOS host, or using a “fragmentation service” that runs on the macOS host. The race condition phase takes ≈ 30s on the former and ≈ 70s on the latter. This leaves even less time for real-time cryptanalysis. With access to a backend machine that is six times (for the app variant), or eight times (for the “fragmentation service” variant) faster, it would have been possible to run the cryptanalysis process in real-time. To validate the effectiveness of our attack, in spite of not being able to run it in real time, we developed two methods: 1. Re-seed time extension , in which we artificially extend the re-seed time using a kernel extension we wrote. We modify the reseed parameter (ru out ) in the randomtab32 PRNG state to read 3600 seconds (arbitrar-ily chosen to be high enough), instead of 180 seconds. This allows us to complete the cryptanalysis, and use the PRNG state thus revealed to mount the attack. 2. Retrospective state comparison , in which we read the current internal PRNG state after the race condition phase from the kernel memory, mount the attack using it (instead of using the cryptanalytic result) and retro-spectively compare the PRNG state extracted with the results obtained through cryptanalysis carried out after the fact. 

Step 1: Experiment setup. The experiment involves four participants. 

• Attacker (two parts). The attacker in the experiment comprises two logically separate parts, which on our setup are also physically separated. The frontend is an attacker device connected to the switched-LAN. Hence-forth we will use the term “attacker” or “attacker device” to denote the frontend. The backend is the attacker’s cryptanalysis backend machine on Azure. 

• macOS host (NFS client). A Macbook connected to the same switched-LAN as the attacker device. The macOS host runs an echo server as a model of the “fragmentation service”. 

• NFS server. A second Macbook connected to the same switched-LAN as the attacker device. (As explained in section 3.1.3, the operating system of the server can be arbitrary. We happened to use MacOS.) Before the experiment starts, the macOS host (NFS client) mounts an NFS share locally at /Users/user/nfs share and remotely on the NFS server at 21 /Users/center . The “echo server” is started on the macOS host, listening on UDP port 3333. 

Step 2: Re-seed timeout extension. As explained above, we extend the re-seed timeout to 3600 seconds using a kernel extension to allow real-time cryptanalysis. The re-seed timeout parameter takes effect only after a re-seeding event, i.e. once we modify the ru out parameter, we need to wait for the next re-seeding event before we start the experiment. All subsequent re-seeding events will have a timeout of 3600 seconds. The modification was required in order to mount the attack in real time due to our compute time constraints. In addition we ran a “retrospective” experiment as detailed in subsection 4.3, which retained the original re-seed timeout. 

Step 3: Identifying the reseed time. Since the MSB is static between reseeding events (as described in subsection 3.2), the attacker can identify the next reseed event (within 180 seconds, which we prolonged to 3600 seconds ) by observing a flip in the MSB of fragment IDs. In order to maximize the attack time window, the attacker sends one request per second to the “fragmentation service” (in our model this is the “echo server”) of the macOS host. Each echo request has a payload size of 1500 bytes (the Ethernet MTU is 1500, thus the overall IPv6 length of the request is higher than the MTU), therefore, the request and the reply are fragmented. The attacker captures each reply and extracts the MSB of the fragment ID, and compares it to the MSB of the first reply. After at most 180 seconds, the attacker will identify a bit-flip indicating that a reseed occurred. Once the attacker detects a reseed event, he/she can start the attack with a guaranteed almost 180 seconds time window in which the PRNG keys remain intact. (Due to our limited compute power we extended this time window to 3600 sec.) 

Step 4: Race condition phase. As described in subsection 3.1 the attacker is uses a simple four bytes index at the start of the UDP payload. The UDP payload has 1500 bytes (the Ethernet MTU is 1500, thus the overall IPv6 length of the request is higher than the MTU). 1. The attacker runs a listener (even a simple one such as netcat) on the UDP source port (on the attacker device) that he/she uses to send packets to macOS host, in order for the attacker device OS not to send ICMP port unreachable messages back to the macOS host. 2. The attacker device then starts a “tshark” (sniffer) that captures the frag-ment IDs and the sender ordinal from the replies. 3. The attacker device sends the first L + 1 packets (i.e. 2( L + 1) fragments) that were pre-prepared to the “fragmentation service” (i.e. to UDP port 3333) on the macOS host, with a short delay of 5 milliseconds before each 22 packet, to assure they arrive and processed in order. The fragment IDs in the replies from the macOS host are then used in subsection A.1, therefore the more accurate the order of those packets is – the less noise we will have. In practice we use L = 600 (601 packets in ≈ 3 seconds). 4. The attacker sends the following 5 × 10 6 − (L + 1) packets that were pre-prepared to the “fragmentation service” (i.e. port 3333 over UDP) on the macOS host as fast as possible. In our experiment, this takes ≈ 67 seconds. 

Step 5: Cryptanalysis. The attacker gets from the “tshark” (sniffer) the fragment IDs and their sender ordinal. Then, the attacker extracts only the necessary data for cryptanalysis, by following this procedure: 1. Reordering the fragment IDs using the sender ordinal. 2. Generating an extract of the data, composed of the following: (a) The first L + 1 packets. (b) All the “special” sequences ( XYZY ). We denote the number of such sequences in the data P .(c) The last fragment ID is to be used for synchronizing the attacker’s PRNG state with the current state of the target’s PRNG. The data thus extracted is sent to the cryptanalytic backend. The technical details of communicating with the cryptanalytic backend and the data size and bandwidth estimation are provided in App. D. The cryptanalytic backend receives the processed fragment IDs from the previous step, performs the cryptanalysis and returns the output (the current internal state of the PRNG, i.e. the randomtab struct) to the attacker device. The attacker sends one additional echo request to the “fragmentation server” on the macOS host as described in the “PRNG synchronization phase” sub-subsection 3.4.5. Once the attacker’s PRNG state is synchronized, the attacker computes the next four fragment IDs. 

Step 6: Spoofing. In order to create valid fragments that can be accepted by the NFS server, the attacker uses the known content for the genuine 2 nd frag-ment NFS WRITE call to create a spoofed 2 nd fragment with a matching UDP checksum (as described in section 3.5.1). We used two alternative payloads: inert content (“ THIS IS WORKING random hex chars ”) and weaponized content which demonstrates our ability to trojanize C code (App. C). The attacker then sends four copies of the spoofed 2 nd fragment, each with one of the four fragment IDs he/she computed in the previous step. Assuming no other organic fragments are received by the NFS server (which may compete over the fragment cache with the attacker’s fragment), there is a 60 seconds window starting when the spoofed 2 nd fragment is sent by the attacker for the genuine 1 st fragment to arrive and be assembled with the spoofed 2 nd fragment. 23 If, during this window, the macOS host’s NFS client writes to the NFS share, e.g. executing the command 

cat /Users/user/secret project/random.h > /Users/user/nfs share/ random.h , the attack succeeds, as the server will immediately match the newly arrived genuine 1 st fragment with the spoofed 2 nd fragment (still in the cache), and the genuine 2 nd fragment that arrives shortly afterwards “loses the race” and is not used. 

Step 7: Attack success verification. We retrieve the file 

/Users/center/random.h from the NFS server and check that our con-tent is injected successfully. 

4.2 Cryptanalysis Results 

We computed the following for each experiment in the context of the cryptan-alytic attack. 

• P – Number of occurrences of the sequence XYZY .

• I – The maximum number (over all s1 candidates) of inequalities among the two pairs in each occurrence of the sequence XYZY . Each instance of the sequence can contribute up to two inequalities, as described in subsubsection 3.4.3. 

• E, σ – Per subsubsection 3.4.4, for random s1, the number of inequalities is distributed ∼ N ( 34 · 2P, 316 · 2P ) = N (E, σ 2). 

• z = I−Eσ – The distance between I and E in units of σ.

z provides an estimation of how likely the cryptanalysis is to extract s1.Recall that in phase 1 (subsubsection 3.4.4) we choose s1 that maximizes the number of inequalities, i.e. that produces I inequalities, and we require it to be at least k = 7 standard deviations above the average E for random candidates. In all the experiments in the “fragmentation service” variant (implemented as an echo server), the cryptanalysis was successful, with z values in the range 8.7 < z < 12 .2, i.e. z ≫ 7 which satisfies the requirement. In the “app” variant all experiments concluded in a successful cryptanalysis as well with even better 

z values in the range 12 .7 < z < 15 .5. 

Cryptanalysis verification against the ground truth. The validation of the cryptanalysis is performed by comparing the extracted state of the PRNG to the cryptanalysis output ( s1, s 2, g, a, b ). The s1, s 2, g, a fields should match exactly, whereas for the value of b, b mod m should match. We ran 10 exper-iments, in all of them the cryptanalysis results matched perfectly the PRNG state we extracted from the RAM. 24 4.3 NFS Attack Results 

We ran the re-seed time extension variant of the experiment 10 times with random strings (“ THIS IS WORKING random hex chars ”) and succeeded to inject the string to the written file every time. The column “server hash” displays the hash of the file after the modification (Table 1). We also conducted the experiment using a realistic payload, an example of such modification is shown in Figure 4. The flow of the attack can be seen in the packet capture in Figure 3. We ran similar experiments using the “retrospective state comparison re-sults” method in order to verify that changing the reseed time does not affect the essence of the attack. As expected, all 10 experiments succeeded, which clearly demonstrates that extending the PRNG reseed timeout does not alter the system in a way that affects the attack (other than extending the attack window). 

Figure 3: Attack flow. The spoofed 2 nd fragments (we send more than four fragments in order to sync with the current state of the PRNG; in later ex-periments we used a better approach as described in subsubsection 3.4.5 ) 1○,among them the spoofed 2 nd fragment 2○ with the correct fragment ID. The macOS host (NFS client) request is fragmented into 3○ (which contains the au-thentication data 6○) and 4○. The NFS server responds with an NFS success status 5○.25 Figure 4: Side-by-side file comparison for the target of the attack. The left-hand side is the original file, and on the right-hand side is the modified file. 1○ the spare word (E1 04) we used for correcting the checksum. 2○ padding we used to match content length. 3○ The enclosing comment characters, the spare checksum word is non-ASCII, in order for the .h file to compile we must be inside a comment. 4○ Injected trojan code that runs whenever the compiled program is executed. index success P cryptanalysis time server hash 1 True 1653.0 07m 00s dd4f3a57b859eca8b31a15f7cfcc6622 2 True 1735.0 04m 34s c793d7380f789c09a11212fa9dc5d92a 3 True 1807.0 04m 49s 76d240407ab4bbffdc10090921e1783b 4 True 1734.0 03m 53s 72e0f1c8d07564bc83fb9ab6b42ad5e2 5 True 1771.0 08m 09s 3d7563a7992050feaa982b7a94c8a075 6 True 1717.0 02m 32s 1f1c8265c5caa8cbd8f53a60f0c8ea53 7 True 1677.0 07m 17s 3999ba99bce6752519ace4d0bfd8dec7 8 True 1703.0 06m 48s 3ada22fdd30bef554279c92b21e778f3 9 True 1740.0 06m 09s 5a2fa14d6923db7cc2bb9a5f6e352c59 10 True 1734.0 04m 51s cb8b68dbd48453fbfac5cc90f16bd3ee Table 1: NFS attack for MacBook Air (2021), model MGN63HB/A (Apple M1 CPU, 8 cores, 8GB RAM, macOS 13.3 (22E252), kernel version xnu-8796.101.5 3. 

4.4 Tested macOS/XNU Versions 

The combination of the cryptanalysis phase and the race condition phase was tested on the hardware and software combinations listed in Table 2. This demon-strates that our attack works across different architectures (x64, arm64) and many kernel versions. 

4.5 HTTP Experiments 

The HTTP experiments only differ from the NFS experiments in a few steps which are described in App. F. The attack is carried out by spoofing the body of HTTP POST request. 26 CPU architecture XNU version macOS version Major Apple M2 chip arm64 8792.81.3 ∼2 13.2.1 Ventura Apple M1 chip arm64 10063.101.15 ∼2 14.4 Sonoma Apple M1 chip arm64 8796.101.5 ∼3 13.3 Ventura Apple M1 chip arm64 8792.81.2 ∼2 13.2 Ventura Apple M1 chip arm64 8792.41.9 ∼2 13.0 Ventura Apple M1 chip arm64 8019.80.24 ∼20 12.2.1 Monterey Apple M1 chip arm64 7195.121.3 ∼9 11.4 Big Sur Intel i7-3820QM x64 6153.141.28.1 ∼1 10.15.7 Catalina 

Table 2: Tested HW/SW versions 

# 5 Discussion 

5.1 Fragmentation and DNS 

The DNS protocol used to be a the typical target for UDP fragmentation at-tacks. However, the “DNS Flag Day 2020” [13] addressed the operational and security problems in DNS caused by fragmentation. The DNS flag day recom-mended limiting accepting DNS messages over 1232 bytes. This means that the overall IPv6 length is limited to 1280, which is the lower limit for MTU in IPv6. Therefore, DNS servers do not accept fragmented packets over IPv6. Thus, any attack based on fragmentation for DNS cache poisoning cannot be mounted against modern DNS servers (since circa 2021-22). 

5.2 Attack Effectiveness 

As shown in Table 2 our attack is very flexible and works in various setups, on completely different architectures (i.e. x64 and ARM64), and against dif-ferent XNU versions (8796.101.5 ∼3, 8792.81.2 ∼2, 8792.41.9 ∼2, 8019.80.24 ∼20, 7195.121.3 ∼9, 6153.141.28.1 ∼1) and macOS versions (Sonoma, Ventura, Mon-terey, Big Sur, Catalina). Overall the attack proved to be very stable as we managed to mount it without modification for all of the above operating sys-tems and hardware. Our attack has two variants for triggering the race condition, namely the “malicious app” and the “fragmentation service”. We demonstrated that both variants can successfully be used for cryptanalysis in subsection 4.2. We ob-served P in the range 1653 − 1807 for the “fragmentation service” variant and 2757 − 2909 for the “malicious app” variant, both clearly fulfill P ≥ 937 (the lower bound calculated in subsubsection 3.4.4). 

5.3 Attack Impact 

The attack we demonstrated can facilitate several nefarious activities. One immediate result is code execution, which can be achieved by modifying any file that contains code, e.g. .h/.c/.cpp for C/C++ projects, .py for python projects, 27 or any shell script, etc. We showcased an injection of a generic trojanized code into a C/C++ header file (.h) which will run whenever the library/binary compiled from it is loaded into memory. The technical details of how to trojanize C/C++ header files are described in App. C. Our attack can also be used for modifying configuration files, which can be very lucrative targets. For example, modifying a server configuration file can compromise the entire system. And since it is very common to leave most of the configuration file in its default form, the attacker can leverage this to predict the second fragment size and content when the file is transferred and alter it in transit. For example, an HTTPS server configuration modification could potentially have serious security consequences such as changing the certificate used for TLS/SSL, changing the privileges required for routes, changing the web-root to a controlled path, and even code execution by loading external modules. Another example might be modifying any documents the client stores for backup, e.g. HTML files. An attacker can modify an HTML file so that it collects payment card and account credentials (phishing-like), or to serve malware to users when the HTML file is served as part of a website. An alternative scenario is where we target the NFS READ call and achieve similar effects, this time for files served from the NFS server to its clients. It is also trivial for an attacker to inflict a denial-of-service condition, as all he/she has to do is to send four fragments with the four possible next fragments IDs, with an invalid checksum or with an incorrect length field and the genuine packet will get discarded. Lastly, it is possible to attack application traffic over TCP. An obvious target would be to modify an HTTP POST request to preform authenticated opera-tions. Another prime target is FTP, where we achieve over TCP the same goals as with NFS. 

5.4 Root Cause 

“normal” thread-safety violation bugs are notoriously difficult to spot due to their dependence on very specific conditions that are hard to predict a-priori and to reproduce/simulate. However, since these bugs do have an observable impact, with sufficient time and testing, such bugs do manifest themselves and are eventually fixed. We show here that this is not necessarily the case with PRNG thread-safety violation (race condition) bugs. These are not flagged because users and testers are not aware of the subtle security implications of such bugs, which otherwise do not affect the performance of their systems. So “no one complains”, and the vulnerabilities remain in the system possibly for over a decade. To wit, the vulnerability we exploit here is 12 years old. 11 

> 11 To the best of our understanding, this vulnerability was introduced in xnu-1699.32.7, which was released on October 4, 2012.

28 6 Conclusion 

Our work exposes the severe effects that race-conditions have on PRNGs. It demonstrates that a race-condition can facilitate a practical cryptanalytic at-tack that would have been otherwise impossible. Our attack on the widely pop-ular XNU kernel leverages a race condition to perform a cryptanalytic attack that results in the complete extraction of the internal state of the PRNG used by the fragment ID generation algorithm. This enables us to spoof IPv6 frag-ments carrying either TCP segments (based on [18]), or UDP datagrams. Our comprehensive experiments demonstrated the stability and reliability of such attacks even on different hardware/architectures and software versions. While our attack’s target is the PRNG of XNU which is not “industrial strong” per-se, the attack concept itself might be applied on industrial strength cryptographic algorithms as well. 

# Ethics considerations 

Vendor status 

We disclosed the vulnerability to Apple on February 28 th , 2024. On July 29 th ,2024, Apple completed fixing the vulnerability in all its operating system releases and assigned it the vulnerability identifier CVE-2024-27823. 12 

> 12 https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2024-27823

29 References 

[1] nfsv3 datastore is much faster than nfsv4, 2022. URL: https: //techbrainblog .com/2022/08/26/nfsv3-datastore-is-much-faster-than-nfsv4/ .[2] Datastore with nfs4 slowness issue and netapp/vmware findings., 2022. URL: https://techbrainblog .com/2022/10/20/datastore-with-nfs4-slowness-issue-and-netappvmware-findings/ .[3] Fatemah Alharbi, Jie Chang, Yuchen Zhou, Feng Qian, Zhiyun Qian, and Nael B. Abu-Ghazaleh. Collaborative client-side dns cache poisoning at-tack. IEEE INFOCOM 2019 - IEEE Conference on Computer Communi-cations , pages 1153–1161, 2019. [4] Carl Beame, Robert Thurlow, Brent Callaghan, David Robinson, David Noveck, Mike Eisler, and Spencer Shepler. Network File System (NFS) version 4 Protocol. RFC 3530, April 2003. URL: https://www .rfc-editor .org/info/rfc3530 , doi:10 .17487/RFC3530 .[5] Steven M. Bellovin. A technique for counting natted hosts. In International Memory Workshop , 2002. [6] Robert Beverly, William Brinkmeyer, Matthew J. Luckie, and Justin P. Rohrer. Ipv6 alias resolution via induced fragmentation. In Passive and Active Network Measurement Conference , 2013. [7] Markus Brandt, Tianxiang Dai, Amit Klein, Haya Shulman, and Michael Waidner. Domain validation++ for mitm-resilient pki. In Proceedings of the 2018 ACM SIGSAC Conference on Computer and Communications Security , page 2060–2076, 10 2018. doi:10 .1145/3243734 .3243790 .[8] Yue Cao, Zhiyun Qian, Zhongjie Wang, Tuan A. Dao, Srikanth V. Krish-namurthy, and Lisa M. Marvel. Off-path tcp exploits: Global rate limit considered dangerous. In USENIX Security Symposium , 2016. [9] Yue Cao, Zhiyun Qian, Zhongjie Wang, Tuan A. Dao, Srikanth V. Krish-namurthy, and Lisa M. Marvel. Off-path tcp exploits of the challenge ack global rate limit. IEEE/ACM Transactions on Networking , 26:765–778, 2018. [10] Weiteng Chen and Zhiyun Qian. Off-path tcp exploit: How wireless routers can jeopardize your secrets. In USENIX Security Symposium , 2018. [11] George Danezis. Covert communications despite traffic data retention. In 

Security Protocols Workshop , 2008. [12] Jakub Dlugolecki. Nfs security in both trusted and untrusted environments, 2007. URL: https://www .giac .org/paper/gsec/8216/nfs-security-trusted-untrusted-environments/112913 .30 [13] DNS Flag Day. Dns flag day 2020, 2020. [Accessed: April 23, 2023]. URL: 

https://www .dnsflagday .net/2020/ .[14] Mike Eisler. NFS Version 2 and Version 3 Security Issues and the NFS Protocol’s Use of RPCSEC GSS and Kerberos V5, June 1999. URL: https: //www .rfc-editor .org/info/rfc2623 , doi:10 .17487/RFC2623 .[15] Mike Eisler, Lin Ling, and Alex Chiu. RPCSEC GSS Protocol Specifi-cation, 1997. URL: https://www .rfc-editor .org/info/rfc2203 , doi: 10 .17487/RFC2203 .[16] Xuewei Feng, Chuanpu Fu, Qi Li, Kun Sun, and Ke Xu. Off-path tcp ex-ploits of the mixed ipid assignment. Proceedings of the 2020 ACM SIGSAC Conference on Computer and Communications Security , 2020. [17] Xuewei Feng, Qi Li, Kun Sun, Chuanpu Fu, and Ke Xu. Off-path tcp hijacking attacks via the side channel of downgraded ipid. IEEE/ACM Transactions on Networking , 30:409–422, 2022. [18] Xuewei Feng, qi li, Kun Sun, Ke Xu, Baojun Liu, Xiaofeng Zheng, Qiushi Yang, Haixin Duan, and Zhiyun Qian. Pmtud is not panacea: Revisiting ip fragmentation attacks against tcp. ndss , 01 2022. doi: 10 .14722/ndss .2022 .24381 .[19] Yossi Gilad and Amir Herzberg. Off-path attacking the web. ArXiv ,abs/1204.6623, 2012. [20] Yossi Gilad and Amir Herzberg. Fragmentation considered vulnera-ble. ACM Transactions on Information and System Security (TISSEC) ,15:16:1–16:31, 04 2013. doi:10 .1145/2445566 .2445568 .[21] Yossi Gilad and Amir Herzberg. When tolerance causes weakness: the case of injection-friendly browsers. Proceedings of the 22nd international conference on World Wide Web , 2013. [22] Yossi Gilad and Amir Herzberg. Off-path tcp injection attacks. ACM Trans. Inf. Syst. Secur. , 16:13, 2014. [23] Yossi Gilad, Amir Herzberg, and Haya Shulman. Off-path hacking: The illusion of challenge-response authentication. IEEE Security & Privacy ,12:68–77, 2013. [24] Fernando Gont. Security Implications of Predictable Fragment Identi-fication Values. RFC 7739, February 2016. URL: https://www .rfc-editor .org/info/rfc7739 , doi:10 .17487/RFC7739 .[25] Roee Hay and Yair Amit. Dns poisoning via port exhaustion, 2011. URL: https://www .dc414 .org/wp-content/uploads/2011/01/ dnsp port exhaustion .pdf .31 [26] Roee Hay and Roi Saltzma. Weak randomness in android’s dns resolver, 2012. URL: https://blog .watchfire .com/files/ androiddnsweakprng .pdf .[27] Thomas Haynes and David Noveck. Network File System (NFS) Version 4 Protocol. RFC 7530, March 2015. URL: https://www .rfc-editor .org/ info/rfc7530 , doi:10 .17487/RFC7530 .[28] Amir Herzberg and Haya Shulman. Fragmentation considered poisonous, or: One-domain-to-rule-them-all.org. 2013 IEEE Conference on Commu-nications and Network Security (CNS) , pages 224–232, 2013. [29] Apple Inc. mount nfs.8.auto.html. URL: https://opensource .apple .com/ source/NFS/NFS-63/mount nfs/mount nfs .8.auto .html .[30] Apple Inc. nfs gss.h.auto.html. URL: https://opensource .apple .com/ source/xnu/xnu-7195 .50 .7.100 .1/bsd/nfs/nfs gss .h.auto .html .[31] Amit Klein. OpenBSD DNS Cache Poisoning and Mul-tiple O/S Predictable IP ID Vulnerability, 2007. URL: 

https://dl .packetstormsecurity .net/papers/attack/ OpenBSD DNS Cache Poisoning -and Multiple OS Predictable -IP ID Vulnerability .pdf .[32] Amit Klein. Cross layer attacks and how to use them (for DNS cache poisoning, device tracking and more). CoRR , abs/2012.07432, 2020. URL: 

https://arxiv .org/abs/2012 .07432 , arXiv:2012 .07432 .[33] Amit Klein. Subverting stateful firewalls with protocol states (extended version). CoRR , abs/2112.09604, 2021. URL: https://arxiv .org/abs/ 2112 .09604 , arXiv:2112 .09604 .[34] Amit Klein and Benny Pinkas. From ip id to device id and kaslr bypass (extended version). In USENIX Security Symposium , 2019. [35] Jonathan Lyard, jonathan Net, and Tony Reix. Security audit of nfsv4 implementation on gnu/linux, 09 2006. [36] Ben Martin. Benchmarking nfsv3 vs. nfsv4 file operation performance, 2008. URL: https://www .linux .com/news/benchmarking-nfsv3-vs-nfsv4-file-operation-performance/ .[37] David Noveck and Chuck Lever. Network File System (NFS) Version 4 Mi-nor Version 1 Protocol, 2020. URL: https://www .rfc-editor .org/info/ rfc8881 , doi:10 .17487/RFC8881 .[38] Liran Orevi, Amir Herzberg, and Haim Zlatokrilov. Dns-dns: Dns-based de-nat scheme. In Cryptology and Network Security , 2018. [39] E Polyakov. Randomized ports - remote dns cache poisoning, 2008. 32 [40] Zhiyun Qian and Z. Morley Mao. Off-path tcp sequence number inference attack - how firewall middleboxes reduce security. 2012 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy , pages 347–361, 2012. [41] Zhiyun Qian, Z. Morley Mao, and Yinglian Xie. Collaborative tcp sequence number inference attack: how to crack sequence number under a second. 

Proceedings of the 2012 ACM conference on Computer and communications security , 2012. [42] Salvatore Sanfilippo. new tcp scan method, 1998. URL: https:// seclists .org/bugtraq/1998/Dec/79 .[43] Robert Thurlow. RPC: Remote Procedure Call Protocol Specification Ver-sion 2. RFC 5531, May 2009. URL: https://www .rfc-editor .org/info/ rfc5531 , doi:10 .17487/RFC5531 .[44] Palmer Travis (Travco). ”FIRST-TRY” DNS CACHE POISON-ING WITH IPV4 AND IPV6 FRAGMENTATION., March 2020. URL: https://wildwesthackinfest .com/blog/first-try-dns-cache-poisoning-on-ipv4-and-ipv6-travis-palmer/ .[45] Aaron West. NSFv3 needs to die, so NSFv4 may live — loadbalancer.org, 2021. [Accessed 23-Apr-2023]. URL: https://www .loadbalancer .org/ blog/nfsv3-vs-nfsv4/ .[46] Xiaofeng Zheng, Chaoyi Lu, Jian Peng, Qiushi Yang, Dongjie Zhou, Baojun Liu, Keyu Man, Shuang Hao, Haixin Duan, and Zhiyun Qian. Poison over troubled forwarders: A cache poisoning attack targeting dns forwarding devices. In USENIX Security Symposium , 2020. 33 A Cryptanalysis Overview 

A.1 Phase 2 – Extracting g (and three least significant bits of s2)

From this phase onward, the attacker does not need the XYZY sequences. In this phase, the attacker uses simple pairs of consecutive PRNG outputs. Offline, attacker prepares a log 2(·) table for {1, . . . , N − 1}, i.e., a table wherein (2 n mod N ) 7 → (n mod ( N − 1)). In the online phase, the attacker calculates log 2(F ⊕s1) for all PRNG output values ( F ) the attacker has. Then, the attacker enumerates over all possible g

values ( φ(N −1) = 715827864 ≈ 229 .4 values) and over the three least significant bits of s2. We choose to focus on the three least significant bits because this is the minimal number of bits that can be used for elimination (using four bits would have worked as well, but it requires enumerating over one more bit). Note: due to some arithmetic properties, this phase always results in eight indistinguishable candidate keys. For the three least significant bits of s2, we get four combinations, and for g there are two candidates: the correct value, and its inverse, g−1. These false positives are passed to the next phase, but this property can also be used in this phase to enumerate three less bits: two less bits of s2, and one less bit of g. For simplicity, we ignore this nuance: we describe the full enumeration of g and the three least significant s2 bits and assume a single candidate is passed to the next phase. 

Phase 2 Elimination: The attacker uses L pairs of consecutive outputs (we explain how L is chosen later). Given a guess of g and s2 mod 8, and for each PRNG output X (which is part of a pair), the attacker can obtain a partial internal state x(8) : x(8) = ((log 2(X ⊕ s1)) · (log 2 g)−1 mod 8) ⊕ (s2 mod 8). For a pair of consecutive partial internal states ( x(8) , x ′(8) ), x′(8) = x(8) +

n · b(8) mod 8, with 1 ≤ n ≤ 4. Thus x′(8) − x(8) mod 8 ∈ { b mod 8 , 2b

mod 8 , 3b mod 8 , 4b mod 8 }. Since b is odd, b mod 8 ∈ { 1, 3, 5, 7}. Thus, the attacker sets up 8 counters, C0, . . . C 7, and increments Cx′(8) −x(8) mod 8 for each (x(8) , x ′(8) ) pair. Define S1 = C1 + C2 + C3 + C4, S 3 = C3 + C6 + C1 + C4, S 5 = C5 + C2 +

C7 + C4, S 7 = C7 + C6 + C5 + C4. For the correct key, all pairs (up to some noise) will contribute to Sb mod 8 , thus one of the sums will be close to L. For a random g and s2, Ci ∼ N ( 18 L, 764 L), thus Sj ∼ N ( 12 L, 716 L). To reliably eliminate 2 29 .4+3 = 2 32 .4 false keys, we require k = 7 standard deviations above the expected value in one of the sums, that is, for some i:

Si ≥ 12 L + k

r 716 L

This also induces a lower bound on L, since Si ≤ L: L ≥ 86. More pairs are needed if there is noise (false pairs). This phase takes 2 32 .4L calculations, but with the optimization described in the above note, this can be reduced to 2 29 .4L.34 A.2 Phase 3 – Extracting the Remaining s2 Bits 

The attacker enumerates over the remaining 28 bits of s2, and for each candidate, the attacker can now calculate the full internal state x corresponding to the output X: x = (((log 2(X ⊕ s1)) · (log 2 g)−1) ⊕ s2. Since x < M , a first quick elimination is to verify that for every output on the key candidate in question. This check is not affected by noise, as long as the output does indeed come from the same PRNG seed. The main phase processing proceeds similarly to the previous phase. The at-tacker considers L′ pairs of consecutive outputs, and for each pair, calculates the internal states ( x, x ′). Now the attacker applies modulo m = 48 (the maximal 

m) on the internal states. 13 

Following the approach of the previous section, the attacker sets 48 coun-ters, C′

> 0

, . . . , C ′

> 47

, and increments C′  

> x′−xmod 48

per each pair. Recall that 

b is invertible modulo 2 and modulo 3 by construction, hence b mod 48 ∈{1, 5, 7, 11 , . . . , 47 }. The attacker therefore defines S′ 

> 1

= C′ 

> 1

+ C′ 

> 2

+ C′ 

> 3

+ C′

> 4

, S ′ 

> 5

=

C′ 

> 5

+C′ 

> 10

+C′ 

> 15

+C′

> 20

, S ′ 

> 7

= C′ 

> 7

+C′ 

> 14

+C′ 

> 21

+C′

> 28

, . . . , S ′ 

> 47

= C′ 

> 47

+C′ 

> 46

+C′ 

> 45

+C′

> 44

.Then for the correct key, S′  

> bmod 48

will have a value almost L′ (up to noise). For a random key, on the other hand, C′ 

> i

∼ N ( 148 L′, 47 48 2 L′), so S′ 

> j

∼ N ( 112 L′, 47 576 L′). The attacker needs to eliminate 2 28 false keys (actually, per the note in the pre-vious section, this figure is actually 2 31 ), so again, we require one of the sums to be at least seven standard deviations above the expected value for a random key, i.e., S′ 

> j

≥ 112 L′ + 7 

q 47 576 L′. As usual, this induces a lower bound on L′ since 

Sj ≤ L′. However, the usual lower bound calculation is not applicable here because L′ is small. Instead, we estimate the lower bound as follows: in order to have a false positive in a particular sum, its counters must be hit every time, and this happens at probability 112 L′ . Since this may happen at any of the 16 sum variables Sj , the overall probability for a false positive at a particular key is 16 12 L′ , so we require: 2 31 16 12 L′ ≪ 1, so, say, L′ ≥ 12 satisfies the requirement. This phase requires 228 L′ calculations for a single incoming (s1, g, s 2

mod 8). In practice, there are 8 incoming candidates, so the total calculations required is 2 31 L′.

A.3 Phase 4 – Extracting a and b

At the beginning of this phase, the attacker has the correct key fields s1, g, s 2,and thus the attacker can calculate the full internal state for every output value. Moreover, from phase 3, the attacker also has b mod 48, which is the index of the sum that exceeds the threshold. With this, the attacker can calculate n for every pair ( x, x ′): since x′ mod 48 = x+b·n mod 48, we have n = ( x′ −x)·b−1

mod 48. The attacker picks several pairs with n = 1. Every pair contributes a linear equation for a, b over Z/M Z: x′ = ax + b mod M . Since two equations suffice to extract a, b mod M , the attacker can solve sets of randomly chosen        

> 13 mneeds to be chosen such that m|48, and also m > 4. In our code, we chose the less optimal m= 12 for ease of programming.

35 two equations, and rank the result ( a, b mod M ). The key ( a, b mod M ) that is ranked highest should be the correct key. This phase requires a negligible number of calculations. At the end of this phase, the attacker has s1, g, s 2, a, b mod M which is the complete key (along with the internal state which is easily calculated given s1, g, s 2). This concludes the cryptanalysis. 

A.3.1 Complexity analysis 

Assuming optimization, the total number of calculations is: 231 · 2P + 2 29 .4L + 2 31 L′

In a noise-free scenario, P = 937 , L = 86 , L ′ = 12, so we get 2 42 calculations. In terms of memory, the log 2 table takes ( N − 1) log 2(N − 1) bits, but in practice, for better memory access patterns and ease of coding, the attacker keeps a table with 2 31 elements of 32-bit integers, totaling 8GB. The log 2 mod 4 table takes 2( N − 1) bits, but again, for better memory access patterns and for ease of coding, the attacker keeps a table of 2 31 elements of one byte (8 bits), totaling 2GB. In all, 10GB RAM storage is needed. Phases 1-3 are embarrassingly parallelizable (phase 4 has a negligible run time). We implemented them using 48 threads on a 48 physical core machine (on Azure) to get a run time of several minutes, and running the code on a four times stronger machine should result in a real-time attack, i.e., an attack that takes less than one minute to conclude (the seed life span is three minutes). 

# B Impractical Attacks 

B.1 A Brute Force Attack on s1 and g

The cryptosystem can be attacked without the race-condition using a brute-force enumeration on all ( s1, g ) combinations. The attack can proceed with the elimination part of phase 2. An additional enumeration over the three least significant bits of s2 is needed, but this is compensated by the optimization which saves three bits of enumeration. So the total enumeration needed to complete phase 2 is 2 31 · 229 .4 = 2 60 .4. The total number of calculations required is at least 2 60 .4L which is at least 2 66 .8. Thus the attack is slower than the software fault injection attack by a factor of 2 24 .8. We see therefore that the brute force attack is impractical. 

B.2 Exploiting Natural Collisions 

B.2.1 Natural collisions 

While the internal state cannot repeat itself during the lifetime of a seed (the internal state is guaranteed to have a maximal cycle of length M , and it is guaranteed not to make more than 1,000,000,000 steps, which is < M ), two 36 internal states can produce the same PRNG output. This is due to the fact that the internal state is first projected into a space of size 2 31 (via the XOR with s2), and then folded into a space of size N − 1 via exponentiation (modulo 

N ). Specifically, the following pairs of values (after the XOR is applied) are mapped into the same output: (0 , N − 1) , (1 , N ), . . . , (2 31 − N, 231 − 1). Altogether, there are 2 31 − N + 1 = 20 such pairs. Thus, every key has up to 20 possible internal state un-ordered pairs that yield output collision. We say “up to” because every pair can be mapped to a single internal state pair, or none at all, depending on s2. To illustrate, s2 = 0 yields no such pairs, because 

M < N − 1. Assuming the key has all 20 pairs available, and given R PRNG outputs from the same seed, the probability to find at least one collision is ≈ 20( RM )2.

B.2.2 Attack 

Suppose the attacker finds a collision X in the PRNG output. The attacker can assume therefore that the values before exponentiation (but after the XOR) are in {(0 , N − 1) , (1 , N ), . . . , (2 31 − N, 231 − 1) }. In other words, the attacker can assume that X ⊕ s1 = gi mod N for some 0 ≤ i ≤ 19. Note, however, that the attacker does not know i.The attacker needs to go over all possible combinations of g values and i

values (20 · φ(N − 1) = 2 33 .7 combinations), and each combination also suggests 

s1 = X ⊕ gi. With these candidates, the attacker can proceed to phase 2’s elimination step. In terms of run-time, the attack consumes 2 33 .7L calculations in step 2, thus 240 .1 calculations. In this respect then, this is still a practical attack. In terms of memory consumption, this attack requires (using the log 2

mod N table) 8GB RAM, which is very practical. However, the probability of the attack to succeed is very low. Consider an ideal scenario: a 1Gbit/s Ethernet LAN, with MTU=1500B – this network can deliver no more than 15,000,000 fragmented IPv6 packets in 180 seconds. Setting 

R = 15 , 000 , 000 yields a probability for at least one collision to be ≈ 1750 . This assumes that the key ( s2) does have 20 pairs. As we show below, this applies to ≈ 71% of the keys, while the remaining ≈ 29% of keys have no pairs at all. So the overall success probability of this technique for a given random seed is 

≈ 11056 . On average, therefore, it would take 3 · 1056 = 3168 minutes (2.2 days) for the attack to succeed, and throughout this entire time the attacker must force the target device to send data at a 1Gbit/s rate. As such, this attack is impractical. 

B.2.3 Pairs per key 

In order for a pair ( i, i + N − 1) to be “valid” in a key s2, the following must hold: i ⊕ s2 < M and ( i + N − 1) ⊕ s2 < M . We enumerated all (2 31 ) values of 

s2 and counted how many pairs are valid under each key. It turns out that for 231 − M ≤ s2 < M (1,525,836,544 values), there are 20 pairs per key, and for 37 the remaining 621,647,104 keys – there are no pairs per key. This means that for ≈ 29% of the keys, the technique does not apply. 

# C Partial Header File Spoofing 

One of our case-studies for the attack is NFS, more specifically we demonstrated that we can spoof the 2 nd fragment of an NFS WRITE call and inject attacker-controlled code into an .h file. The question at hand is how to turn this into a generic utilitarian capability. While .h files in C++ might contain more than just declarations, in C an attacker would have to rely on a specific extension feature supported by the two mainstream C compilers. The proposed method for C (which also works for C++) is to take advantage of gcc/clang attribute feature. In C/C++, the keyword attribute allows specifying special attributes as part of a symbol declaration. The constructor 

attribute causes the function to be invoked automatically before execution enters 

main() (for an executable) or immediately after the binary is loaded (for a library). The attacker can use it to get his/her code executed (when the code that uses the .h file is compiled and executed) without changing any other function or relying on any specific (and unrecommended) coding style of the target code project, particularly placing code in .h files. In order to avoid linker errors due to multiple #include of the spoofed header file, we also suggest using the weak attribute. The weak attribute causes the declaration to be emitted as a weak symbol in linkage rather than a global one. A weak symbol allows the symbol to be overridden by a definition with a stronger symbol linkage elsewhere in the program. In other words, if multiple definitions of the same symbol exist, the linker will choose the strongest, if all the symbols are weak, an arbitrary symbol will be used for linking. The function declaration which has both attributes can be viewed in List-ing 1.              

> 1# include < stdio .h >
> 2void __attribute__ (( weak ) ) __attribute__ (( constructor ) )
> 3attacker_controlled_func ()
> 4{
> 5printf ( " attacker code here , running before main \ n " ) ;
> 6}

Listing 1: test.h .final spoofed header 

# D Cryptanalysis Input Size 

Below we calculate the size of the data sent from the attacker’s frontend device, to the attacker’s backend cryptanalysys engine. This size, divided by the band-width between the backend and the frontend, determines the communication time overhead which should ideally be negligible, in order not to shorten the time window of the spoofing phase (from the availability of the predicted next fragment IDs, until the next reseed event). 38 The data required for the cryptanalysis (and the prediction of the next frag-ment IDs) is as follows (all data pertains to fragment IDs received from the macOS host in the fault triggering phase): 1. P sequences of XYZ .2. The first L + 1 IDs. 3. The last ID. Since each ID consists of four bytes, assuming L = 600 and an upper bound of P = 3000, we have a total of (3000 × 3) + (600 + 1) + 1 = 9602 IDs which amounts to 38408 bytes (roughly 38.5KB). In our experiments, we send more data by including the duplicate Y (i.e. XYZY instead of XYZ ) and the sender index of each fragment (four bytes each). Additionally, we send the data as decimal numbers (i.e. in ASCII digits), which further increases the effective data size. In all, the total data size in our experiments is approximately 252KB. Both the compact data representation (38.5KB) and the data representation we use in our experiments (252KB) can be transmitted in under 0.1 second on a 10 Mbps upload link, which is a fairly modest uplink speed nowadays. 

# E Spoofing TCP Fragments 

During the reassembly of fragments, the server’s network stack validates the consistency of the “Explicit Congestion Notification” (ECN) IPv6 header flag, ensuring that all fragments have the same value. In UDP, macOS always sends ECN=0, thus the attacker should have ECN=0 in the spoofed fragment. In TCP, however, it is more complicated, because in general, TCP does support ECN. Hence, the attacker must ensure that the ECN flag in the spoofed 2nd fragment matches the ECN flag in the genuine 1 st fragment. On macOS (as a TCP client), the value of the IPv6 ECN flag (for packets carrying non-empty TCP payload) in a TCP session is determined by the “ECN Echo” (ECE) flag in the TCP header received from the server in the SYN/ACK message (during the TCP handshake). If the server’s ECE value is predictable (for example, in the case of a Linux server), the attacker can send a TCP SYN packet to the server before the attack to find out the ECE returned by the server, and thus determine how to set the ECN flag in the spoofed fragment. However, a macOS server does not have a deterministic ECE value. For-tunately for the attacker, there is a workaround. macOS server only reject fragments when ECN ̸ = 0 for the 1 st fragment and ECN = 0 for any other fragment. Taking advantage of this behavior, the attacker can set ECN = 2 in the spoofed fragment, and the packet will reassemble correctly. 39 F HTTP Experiment 

Step 1: Experiment Setup 

The experiment involves four participants. 1. Attacker – The attacker in the experiment is comprised of two logically separate parts, which on our setup are also physically separated. (a) Frontend – The attacker device is connected to the switched-LAN, henceforth we will use the term “attacker” or “attacker device” to denote the frontend. (b) Backend – The attacker’s cryptanalysis machine on Azure, henceforth we will use the term “cryptanalytic backend” to denote it. 2. macOS host (HTTP client) – A Macbook connected to the same switched-LAN as the attacker device. The macOS host runs an echo server listening on UDP port 3333 as a model of the “fragmentation service”. 3. HTTP server – A second Macbook (the operating system of the server is immaterial to the attack, in our case we happened to use another Macbook for the server) connected to the same switched-LAN as the attacker device. The HTTP service listens on TCP port 8000. 

Steps 2 - 5 

The same as the NFS attack. 

Step 6: Spoofing 

In this step, in contrast to the NFS, the attacker is also required to force the TCP connection between the macOS host and the HTTP server to use fragments. This is done using the technique that is described in [18, section V.C]. It is important to note, that in order for the technique to work, the attacker has to win a race, i.e. the attacker has to lower the MTU after the connection is already established and before the HTTP client is sending the actual request. To that end, we insert a short delay after the client is calling connect() and before the client calls send() . Another method that will achieve the same goal, is simply to attack a second HTTP request on the same TCP connection. Next, the attacker uses the known content for the genuine 2 nd fragment HTTP request to create a spoofed 2 nd fragment with the modified content “DANGER TCP IS NOT SAFE ”. Creating a matching checksum is a bit more involved than what is described in section 3.5.1 because the attacker can not use any word (two aligned bytes). For example, non-ASCII bytes, or characters with special meaning (depending on the designated request encoding) may cause the request to be rejected by the application/framework if they are not encoded. To work around this, the 40 attacker can simply use four spare words 14 with only alphanumeric characters – this is equivalent to the one spare word the attacker originally used for the checksum adjustment. The attacker then sends four copies of the spoofed frag-ment each with one of the four fragment IDs he/she computed in the previous state. It should also be noted that there is another subtlety when spoofing fragments in TCP which we describe in Appendix E. Assuming no other organic fragments are received, there is a 60 seconds window starting at the time the spoofed 2 nd fragment is sent by the attacker (more accurately – received by the server) for the genuine request. Next, the macOS HTTP client (running on the host) establishes a TCP connection to the HTTP server. While the HTTP client process is awaiting for the connection to establish, the attacker tricks the macOS host to lower the MTU for the TCP connection. Then, the HTTP client emits an HTTP request as described in Listing 2. The request saves the given token in the server. The token is merely an abstract example, which can be substituted with a more realistic scenario. For example, consider an HTTP request that sets/changes the password of the user where the token is the new password, or an HTTP-based financial transaction where the token is the the amount of money to transfer and the target account. If the macOS sends this genuine request, and the genuine 1 st 

fragment is received at the server during the said 60 seconds time window, the attack will succeed, because the server will immediately match the newly arrived genuine 1 st fragment with the spoofed 2 nd fragment (still in the cache), and the genuine 2 nd fragment that arrives shortly afterward “loses the race” and is discarded.           

> 1POST / save HTTP /1.1
> 2Content - Type : application /x - www - form - urlencoded
> 3Content - Length : 1506
> 4Connection : keep - alive
> 56token = RANDOM_1500_ALPHA - NUMERIC_CHARS

Listing 2: HTTP request 

Step 7: Attack success verification 

To verify the success of the attack, we query the HTTP server for the saved token. If the attack succeeds the token should contain our injected string. Again the token here is merely an example, and could be replaced with a more concrete example.   

> 14 It turns out that all possible sums (modulo 2 16 −1) can be achieved with four words of two alphanumeric bytes.

41 G Disassembly 

G.1 XNU ip6 randomid() x64 

1 r_L_inline_LCG : 

2 mov esi , cs : randomtab32 . ru_a 

3 mov edi , cs : randomtab32 . ru_b 

4 mov ecx , cs : randomtab32 . ru_m 

5 mov eax , cs : randomtab32 . ru_x 

6 ; - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

7 ; tmp_ru_x = ( randomtab32 . ru_b + randomtab32 . ru_a * randomtab32 . ru_x ) 

8 ; % randomtab32 . ru_m ; 

9 ; - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

10 imul rax , rsi 

11 add rax , rdi 

12 xor edx , edx 

13 div rcx 

14 test ebx , ebx 

15 jz short r_ L_ a ss ig n_ gl o ba l_ PR NG _ st at e ;

16 ; - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

17 ; tmp_ru_x = ( randomtab32 . ru_b + randomtab32 . ru_a * tmp_ru_x ) 

18 ; % randomtab32 . ru_m ; 

19 ; - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

20 imul rdx , rsi 

21 add rdx , rdi 

22 mov rax , rdx 

23 xor edx , edx 

24 div rcx 

25 cmp ebx , 1

26 jz short r_ L_ a ss ig n_ gl o ba l_ PR NG _ st at e ;

27 ; - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

28 ; tmp_ru_x = ( randomtab32 . ru_b + randomtab32 . ru_a * tmp_ru_x ) 

29 ; % randomtab32 . ru_m ; 

30 ; - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

31 imul rdx , rsi 

32 add rdx , rdi 

33 mov rax , rdx 

34 xor edx , edx 

35 div rcx 

36 cmp ebx , 2

37 jz short r_ L_ a ss ig n_ gl o ba l_ PR NG _ st at e ;

38 ; - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

39 ; tmp_ru_x = ( randomtab32 . ru_b + randomtab32 . ru_a * tmp_ru_x ) 

40 ; % randomtab32 . ru_m ; 

41 ; - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

42 imul rdx , rsi 

43 add rdx , rdi 

44 mov rax , rdx 

45 xor edx , edx 

46 div rcx 

47 r _ L_ as si gn _ gl ob al _ PR NG _s ta t e : 

48 ; - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

49 ; randomtab32 . ru_x = tmp_ru_x 

50 ; - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

51 mov cs : randomtab32 . ru_x , edx ;

52 ; - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

53 ; randomtab32 . ru_counter += n + 1

54 ; - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

55 mov eax , cs : randomtab32 . ru_counter 

56 lea eax , [ rbx + rax +1] 

57 mov cs : randomtab32 . ru_counter , eax 

Listing 3: XNU ip6 randomid() x64 disassembly 42 G.2 XNU ip6 randomid() arm64e 

1 r_L_inline_LCG : 

2 mov esi , cs : randomtab32 . ru_a 

3 mov edi , cs : randomtab32 . ru_b 

4 mov ecx , cs : randomtab32 . ru_m 

5 mov eax , cs : randomtab32 . ru_x 

6 ; - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

7 ; tmp_ru_x = ( randomtab32 . ru_b + randomtab32 . ru_a * randomtab32 . ru_x ) 

8 ; % randomtab32 . ru_m ; 

9 ; - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

10 imul rax , rsi 

11 add rax , rdi 

12 xor edx , edx 

13 div rcx 

14 test ebx , ebx 

15 jz short r_ L_ a ss ig n_ gl o ba l_ PR NG _ st at e ;

16 ; - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

17 ; tmp_ru_x = ( randomtab32 . ru_b + randomtab32 . ru_a * tmp_ru_x ) 

18 ; % randomtab32 . ru_m ; 

19 ; - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

20 imul rdx , rsi 

21 add rdx , rdi 

22 mov rax , rdx 

23 xor edx , edx 

24 div rcx 

25 cmp ebx , 1

26 jz short r_ L_ a ss ig n_ gl o ba l_ PR NG _ st at e ;

27 ; - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

28 ; tmp_ru_x = ( randomtab32 . ru_b + randomtab32 . ru_a * tmp_ru_x ) 

29 ; % randomtab32 . ru_m ; 

30 ; - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

31 imul rdx , rsi 

32 add rdx , rdi 

33 mov rax , rdx 

34 xor edx , edx 

35 div rcx 

36 cmp ebx , 2

37 jz short r_ L_ a ss ig n_ gl o ba l_ PR NG _ st at e ;

38 ; - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

39 ; tmp_ru_x = ( randomtab32 . ru_b + randomtab32 . ru_a * tmp_ru_x ) 

40 ; % randomtab32 . ru_m ; 

41 ; - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

42 imul rdx , rsi 

43 add rdx , rdi 

44 mov rax , rdx 

45 xor edx , edx 

46 div rcx 

47 r _ L_ as si gn _ gl ob al _ PR NG _s ta t e : 

48 ; - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

49 ; randomtab32 . ru_x = tmp_ru_x 

50 ; - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

51 mov cs : randomtab32 . ru_x , edx ;

52 ; - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

53 ; randomtab32 . ru_counter += n + 1

54 ; - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

55 mov eax , cs : randomtab32 . ru_counter 

56 lea eax , [ rbx + rax +1] 

57 mov cs : randomtab32 . ru_counter , eax 

Listing 4: XNU ip6 randomid() arm64e disassembly 43